everybody this is our seat pack the
founder of journalist wealth and the
creator of the thrillist wealth
portfolio I hope you all are doing well
it is Saturday februari 23rd we are
ending a fairly painful week for anyone
who owns anything to do with precious
metals and even though I talked about it
last week I just felt like I wanted to
spend one more week talking about this
because whether you're new to owning it
you've been in it 10 years it's never a
trivial thing to go through a clean-out
phase or a correction face so I want to
spend time on that now I'm calling this
week's talk the death of gold the
financial times I remember this ran a
story it was one of their lead stories
December 13 1997 and they basically came
out and said gold was dead now gold had
been falling since very early in the 80s
from about eight hundred fifty dollars
in here we are 1997 17 years later well
you shouldn't have own gold then you
should have been in the stocks between
basically 8082 in the year 2000 but they
came out with an article that gold was
dead and they titled it the death of
gold now I just you know I want to look
at gold today a little differently than
maybe you're used to looking at it but I
just I just want to remind everyone you
know you don't win we don't win at this
by pretending you know to be something
that were not we don't win by playing
the rules that someone else sets and I
often think of the David and Goliath
story where when David dresses to battle
Goliath he doesn't put on the armor or
the chainmail with the big sword which
people had been doing before him and
losing and dying what he does is he gets
in his clothes there comfortably gets
slingshot not a sword he gets you know
five smooth stones and he wins and the
thing is David's win all the time okay
but they have to first I mean they have
to first acknowledge their weaknesses
and choose not to play by someone else's
rule
so we're not going to beat hedge funds
that are high frequency traders that
have you know 200 phd's working for them
so let's just not play by those rules
but we also don't have to answer to our
investors and give them quarterly
reports and answer and say why i have y
heffman our money gone up this week or
this month of this quarter even this
year so there are advantages we have and
the thing is if you're playing against a
person or if you're playing against a
team that knows how to really manage
money in a very unique way then the last
thing you want to do is play that same
game you want to play a different game
so the game that I think we should play
is a game of not having to answer to
shareholders or quarterly calls because
we're a publicly traded company but
let's answer to what's best for our
money and so the first thing I want to
show you is this picture here which is
the percentage of bullishness or how
bullish are people on gold mining stocks
and if you can see this goes back to two
thousand eight one two three four five
years five plus years of data and you
can see today I just took this today we
are at one of those tipping points or
turning around points that the
percentage of bullishness has only been
lower one time before we are today and
that was doing the complete meltdown at
the end of two thousand eight one
everyone thought the world was coming
apart and we're there again today so
whether we get a little less bullishness
over the next couple days or even week
we are near the bottom if not already at
the bottom and I'm not saying today as
the bottom of saying there's very
there's a much lower down side than
upside to gold mining stocks the other
thing I want to show you is what's the
percentage of bullishness for the stock
market and I have all five of my pink
circles exactly at the same level
whether the peaks or the troughs go
exactly inside the circle and I just
want to point out that
the percentage of people who are bullish
on the stock market today is right up
there in the top 5% ish excuse me for a
second of how bullish people have been
before and so I'm not saying that the
market cannot go higher though it
absolutely needs to correct and there's
so much money printing that it probably
will but just compare the price chart i
showed you a second ago to this one and
you'll notice that we are near the
bottom the next try i want to show you
is to flip this whole thing on its head
and look at this price chart here see
how it's just absolutely falling from
2005 till today now what this price
chart is is an inverted price chart of
gold and so the reason why i thought
this was really interesting was i have
to believe to your brain you can clearly
see that this inverted price chart of
gold so that the more this white line
falls the higher the price of gold and
you can probably see here that this
really looks like it's falling and right
now it's consolidating and whatever
something consolidates after a long
trend it has an eighty percent chance of
breaking out in the same direction that
it came in so it came in falling ending
this example and there's an eighty-five
percent chance when it breaks out of
this consolidation it will break out to
the downward side and I just think
that's great that we can look at this
from a completely flipped perspective
and notice oh wow yeah that that looks
pretty clear the direction that it's
going the last thing I want to show you
is something that I almost never talk
about especially with precious metal
mining stocks or almost anything and
that's actually earnings and how much
the earnings are and so there's a lot of
numbers on this price chart but I want
to show you the very bottom the green
ones and I just want it have you noticed
that they are going up from five dollars
560 1276
96-90 $19 $19 $32 to drop to 28 up to 36
those are the earnings of the Huey the
amex gold bug index fee and you can
clearly tell that the earnings are going
up so this is clearly not an earnings
thing why the market is falling and I
just look at this as there's a cleaning
out there are three big clean outs in
any secular bull market and we are in
one now the reason why this clean-out
feels so much more painful than the
previous one is because during this
clean out the stock market itself is
going up while this sector is falling
and that feels very very difficult
thanks so much for being here my next
month a strategy gathering is March
twelfth I hope to see you there you guys
have a great weekend and I will speak to
you soon take care